# Vedic Prose Corpus (VPC)

The files in this directory constitute the "Vedic Prose Corpus" (VPC), built in collaboration with Sven Sellmer (University of Poznań) and Kyoko Amano (University of Kyoto). We define Vedic prose as the collection of post-Saṃhitā texts that discuss the performance and significance of Vedic sacrifice. These texts constitute primary historical sources for South Asia in the first millennium BCE, making their digital collection important for both Vedic scholars and researchers in related fields.

Previously, some Vedic prose texts were not digitized at all, while others were scattered across diverse web sources with different formatting conventions and inconsistent markup of meta-elements. The VPC aims to present the Sanskrit of this prose corpus in a unified format, enabling research in quantitative linguistics, Digital Humanities, and NLP.

Details of corpus creation and cleanup will be described in a paper that submitted to the proceedings of the Atharvaveda workshop at Sapienza University in 2025. The main principle of corpus construction is: **one sentence = one line**. Adhering to this principle required manual segmentation of "continuous" texts such as the ŚBM, which is work in progress. Each text file begins with the default header (lines starting with #; see the top-level readme file). Each text line is uniquely identified by its citation in the format `1.2.3`. The only exception to this markup are classical commentaries on Vedic texts, where we use the citation format `1.2.3.[4]` — here `1.2.3` refers to the text line in the commented mūla text, and the bracketed number is the line counter for the specific comment.

A **search interface** for the VPC data is available at [huggingface](https://huggingface.co/spaces/OliverHellwig/vpcsearch).